Instantly when I walked into the exhibit, I noticed the sunset on the wall followed me as I moved. Taking a closer look at the screen wall I noticed they were using a Kinect by Microsoft. The name of the piece is called “Sunset Mirror.” I have an Xbox and have used the Kinect myself, but never did I think to use it for artistic purposes such as the one displayed in the exhibit. Basically, what the Kinect would do is monitor who walks in and make the sunset move from high to low as the person either walked into the exhibit or back out the door.  Walking further inside I see this curtain like drape that hung from the ceiling. The piece is called “Fabric Mirror” and at first glance, I was very hesitant. Being that I didn’t see any wires or any type of electrical components I didn’t understand how this art piece needed human interaction. At the moment, no one was around to greet me. So, I didn’t know what was going to happen, until I walked pass the drape. Walking by, I see the gold pieces fold in on themselves to make me perceive the movement. What was happening was there was a camera that watch and monitored my movement to open and close the gold pieces. The last piece in the exhibit is named “Cracked Mud.” Initially, when I approached the piece nothing happened. So, just like with the “Fabric Mirror” I was hesitant to get to close or attempt to interact with it. However, when I walked away from it to talk to someone who works there I noticed a panel move. I walk up to it again and start walking around it. Instantly, the panels start rising and falling depending on where I went. I also noticed many red lights underneath the panels so I’m assuming they were tracking me as I walked around the art piece. This was made possible probably by using the same tracker that automatic doors use. There was this light above the piece and I’m unsure what that was used for. Maybe the tracker was actually in the light and that’s what made the panels rise and fall.  I started to feel like a 4-year-old child the way I sped walked around the art piece time and time again. This exhibit inspired me in many ways I didn’t even fathom. Because I understand the coding and have a basic understanding of the mechanics of how these art pieces work, I feel I could possibly make my own art piece that uses coding. Like maybe programming a lamp with 3 different lightbulbs, or one that can dim and get brighter, so in the different times of the day it would know what light to use for a room. Or maybe programming a door that opens and closes automatically when it senses someone with a valid passkey approaching. These 2 ideas are just randomly off the top of my head but to be able to understand and have the capability to do something like this is truly a blessing and a gift that everyone should one day attempt to understand.
